


    Greenhouse


    === Overview


    A half cylinder of radius R=1 and width W=4 is placed in cross-flow on the bottom wall of a wind-tunnel.
    The flow is assumed to be irrotational and inviscid. The user can select various angles of attack, measured as
    the angle between the x-axis and the normal to the cylinder.

    Meshing is carried out with snappyHexMesh, but skipping the addition of layers, which are not needed for an
    inviscid solution.

    Once the potential flow solution is found (the potential function is Phi), the post processing tools are used
    to calculate the velocity (as gradient of the potential function) and extract it both along the x-axis (streamwise
    direction) and along the cylinder surface (on the mid y-plane through the origin).

    A ParaView state file calculates the forces on the half-cylinder by integrating the pressure on the surface.

    A gnuplot script compares the pressure coefficient as a function of the distance upstream of the half cylinder
    on the midplane to the analytical solution. Also, the pressure coefficient is processed as a function of the angle
    on the surface.

    The case can be run in both serial and parallel, depending on the number of cells and serial and parallel SLURM
    submission scripts are provided (openfoam.v7.serial.slurm and openfoam.v7.parallel.slurm).

    
    === Changing the angle of attack

    In order to change the angle of attack, change the variable

       rotAngle 0.0; // degrees
    
    in the file 0/include/rotationAngle

    This will change the blockMeshDict as well as the inlet velocity vectors accordingly.

  
    === Postprocessing


    Once data and results have been obtained, you can execute
  
        gnuplot cp.plt
        gnuplot cp_xaxis.plt

    to generate EPS files of the pressure coefficient as a function of the angle on the surface (mid plane)
    and along the x-axis upstream of the half cylinder.

    Also, you can load the ParaView states

        forces.pvsm
        viz.pvsm

    where the first produces the net forces on the half cylinder due to pressure and the second produces
    a visualization of the flow field.

    EPS and PNG figures are available in pics/
 


